BOWLING_BALL - This bowling ball is real heavy and doesn't bounce much.
BASKETBALL - This basketball is medium weight and very bouncy.
SOCCER_BALL - This soccer ball is medium in both weight and bounciness.
PINBALL - This pinball is very hard and heavy and doesn't bounce much.
SUPER_BALL - This super ball gains height with every bounce. The harder it's hit, the further it will roll. It's not affected by gravity. You can program it to show any number on its surface.
PROGRAMMABLE_BALL - This ball can be programmed to vary in appearance, mass, elasticity, density, and friction.
BASEBALL - This baseball is pretty light and not very bouncy.
TENNIS_BALL - This tennis ball or floor can be stretched vertically or horizontally to any length you need. It's not as slippery as a caution wall. Explosives will blow it up.
YELLOW_BRICK_WALL - This is a yellow brick wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. Its surface is pretty slippery. Explosions will blow holes through it.
CINDER_BLOCK_WALL - This is a cinder block wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. Its surface isn't very slippery. Explosions won't blow holes through it.
GRECO_ROMAN_WALL - This is a Greco-Roman wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. It has a pretty slippery surface. Explosions won't affect it.
WOODEN_WALL - This is a wooden wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. Its surface isn't very slippery. Explosions will blow holes through it.
LOG_WALL - This is a log wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. Its surface isn't very slippery. Explosions won't affect it.
CAUTION_WALL - This is a caution wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. It's very slippery, and isn't affected by explosives.
GRASS_FLOOR - This is a grass floor or vine wall. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. It's not very slippery. Explosions will blast holes through it.
SAND_WALL - This is a sand wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. Its surface isn't slippery. Explosions won't affect it.
PIPE_WALL - This is a pipe wall or floor. Stretch it vertically or horizontally to any length you need. It has a slippery surface. Explosions won't affect it.
CURVED_PIPE_WALL - This curved pipe section can be connected to a pipe wall or floor. Flip it to curve in the direction of curved pipe and connectors to control the direction that objects go. You can also attach an accelerator tube to speed up or reverse the direction of objects moving through the pipes.
T_CONNECTOR - Use this T-Connector to hitch sections of large or curved pipe together. Drop balls and other objects into the openings. Attach an accelerator tube to speed up or reverse the direction of objects moving through the pipes.
LARGE_CURVED_PIPE - Force balls and other objects into this large curved pipe. You can also attach an accelerator tube to speed up or reverse the direction of objects moving through the pipes.
ACCELERATOR_TUBE - This accelerator tube can be connected to any type of large pipe. It will speed up or change the direction of any object passing through it.
LATTICE_ARCHWAY - This large lattice archway can be used to fill spaces so objects can't pass through. You can set things on top of it, or bounce things off it. But you can't blow it up.
SCAFFOLD_BARRIER - This chunk of metal scaffolding can be used to fill spaces so objects can't pass through. You can set things on top of it, or bounce things off it. But you can't blow it up.
WOODEN_BARRIER - This big wooden barrier can be used to fill spaces so objects can't pass through. You can set things on top of it, or bounce things off it. But you can't blow it up.
ARCHWAY - This big marble archway can be used to fill spaces so objects can't pass through. You can set things on top of it, or bounce things off it. But you can't blow it up.
BRICK_INCLINE - Roll balls and other parts up or down this brick incline. It can be stretched or shrunk, which changes the angle. Use it to control the direction of balloons and other objects. It's not affected by explosives.
YELLOW_BRICK_INCLINE - Roll balls and other parts up or down this yellow brick incline. It can be stretched or shrunk, which changes the angle. It's not affected by explosives.
GRANITE_INCLINE - Roll balls and other parts up or down this granite incline. Use it to control the direction of balls and other objects. It can be stretched or shrunk, which changes the angle. It's not affected by explosives.
WOOD_INCLINE - You can roll things up or down this wood incline, or use it to direct balls. It can be stretched or shrunk, which changes the angle. Explosives won't hurt it.
LOG_INCLINE - Roll balls and other parts up or down this log incline. Use it to control the direction of balls and other objects. It can be stretched or shrunk, which changes the angle. It's not affected by explosives.
GRASS_INCLINE - Roll balls and other parts up or down this grass incline. Use it to control the direction of balls and other objects. It can be stretched or shrunk, which changes the angle. It's not affected by explosives.
POOL_TABLE_WALL - You can build your own virtual pool table with these felt-covered walls. Balls will bounce off them. Add pockets wherever you want them. Flip these to necessary.
POOL_CUE - This pool cue is spring-loaded and ready to shoot anytime something bumps the button on the back end. It can be rotated to shoot from eight different angles. Use it to hit pool balls and other things.
TRAP_DOOR - This trap door drops open when popping bombs and balls. It can be flipped so that the point is facing up, down, or to either side.
BALLOON - This balloon can be programmed to have four different appearances, which all act exactly the same. It will float up into the air unless it's tied down with a rope or held back by another object. Use it to lift the low end of the tetter-totter, shoot the phazer, trigger the boxing glove, push the bellows, or bump various objects. Balloons will pop if they touch moving gears, hedge trimmers, tin ships, any flame, laser beams or tracks.
HOT_AIR_BALLOON - Light the candle to create hot air, which will make this balloon rise into the air. Tie a rope to the eye hook on the bottom and use it to lift things, pull triggers, and so on.
BLIMP - This blimp will fly in a straight line until it bumps into something and reverses direction. It will pop if it bumps into a moving gear, tack, or other sharp objects. And it will blow up if it touches a flame or explosion.
TEETER_TOTTER - Drop something heavy on the high end of this teeter-totter to catapult an object off the low end. Tie a rope to either end and use it to hoist and lower objects, pull other objects, or cause other reactions.
TIPPY_TRAILER - This little trailer acts as a teeter-totter, hang things in the air, or hoist things off the ground with the help of a pulley. Attaches to teeter-totters, boat cleats, laundry baskets, buckets, phazers, balloons, the Mandrill Motor, and several other parts. To use the steel cable: pull it out of the parts bin onto the screen. Click on the first object you want tied, then drag the cursor over the second object. When the line turns from red to green the rope is in position. Click again to attach it. (For more info about steel cables, see page 14.)
PULLEY - You can place this pulley between any two parts that may be connected by rope or cable. For example: tie one end of a rope to an object (a laundry basket for instance), then run the rope over as many pulleys as necessary (click on each pulley), and tie the other end of the rope to another part, such as the phazer. When you run the puzzle, the laundry basket will fall, pulling the rope, which will pull the trigger and fire the phazer.
BOAT_CLEAT - Any object that can be tied with a rope or steel cable may be hitched to this boat cleat. Use it to hang things from the air, or to keep balloons from floating away.
TIN_SNIPS - You can use these tin snips to cut through rope or steel cable. To make them cut, just bump either handle and use an object. You can also use them to pop blimps and balloons.
CAPTAIN_Z_SUPER_PHASER - This spiffy toy phazer shoots pulses of energy. Tie one end of a rope to the trigger and run it through a pulley (placed behind the phazer), then tie the other end to a balloon or something heavy. You can program the number of energy pulses you want to fire. Use it to bump blimps, pop balloons and blimps, and blow out explosives.
BUCKET - You can drop things inside this bucket. Tie a rope to it, and tie the other end to a second object. Then drop something heavy into the bucket. You can also lift teter-toters, pull triggers, and affect other parts that may be attached to a rope.
LEAKY_BUCKET - There's a hole in the bottom of this bucket. You can program how fast the paint leaks out. The faster the drip, the heavier the bucket is when you start the puzzle. As the contents drip, the bucket gets lighter. Tie a rope to the top and use pulleys to connect it to another object.
LAUNDRY_BASKET - This is a laundry basket. You can tie a rope to it and drop it on Curie Cat like a cage, or run the rope over the pulleys and attach it to another object you want to lift or lower.
FLASHLIGHT - Drop something on the button of this flashlight to turn it on. Use it to power solar panels. Or put a magnifying glass right in front of it and use it to light fuses and candles.
LAVA_LAMP - This groovy lava lamp isn't just a cool piece of retro decor taken from Professor Tim's attic. It's also an excellent light source. Tie a rope to the chain and give it a tug to turn on the lamp. Use it to power up the solar panel, or shine it through a magnifying glass in front of any light source to ignite fuses or candles. Make sure it's close enough to both the light source and the fuse you're trying to light. Flip it if necessary.
MAGNIFYING_GLASS - Place this magnifying glass in front of any light source to ignite fuses or candles. Make sure it's close enough to both the light source and the fuse you're trying to light. Flip it if necessary.
CANDLE - This candle can be lit with a laser beam, another flaming part, or a magnifying glass and light source. Use it to light fuses, make coffee pot percolate, or pop blimps and balloons.
ALADDINS_LAMP - Use flint rocks, a laser, a rocket, a match on a spring, lasers, or a light source and a magnifying glass to start this oil lamp. Once it's burning, you can use it to light candles and fuses.
FINT_AND_STARTER - Bump these flint pegs with a rope to make this match pop up lit. Use it to light fuses, pop blimps and balloons, and heat up coffee pots.
MATCH_ON_A_SPRING - Pull the little peg with a rope to make this cannon pop up lit. Use it to light fuses, pop blimps and balloons, and heat up coffee pots.
CANNON - Light the fuse of this cannon with a laser, a flaming part (like a candle or a rocket), or use a magnifying glass and light source. It fires cannon balls which can be used to break and bump things. And it can be rotated to aim six different angles.
DYNAMITE - Light the fuse of this dynamite with a laser, a rocket, a flaming part (like a candle or Aladdin's Lamp), or use a magnifying glass and light source. It will shoot straight into the air when lit. The rocket can be flipped up, left, or right.
ROCKET - You can shoot the fuse of this rocket with a flaming part, or by using a magnifying glass and light source. It will shoot straight into the air when lit. The rocket can be flipped up, left, or right.
FIREWORKS - This part lets you choose between three different types of fireworks displays. Program the part to get the color of your choice. Light the fuse with a laser, a candle (or other flaming part), or by using a magnifying glass and light source.
MISSILE - This missile is handy for blowing up all sorts of things, including most walls. Light the fuse. You can rotate it to fly straight up, right, or left.
NITROGYRECINE - This tube of nitrogyrecine will explode if it's bumped or dropped with enough force. It blows up of explosives appears. Drag the explosives to the area or object you want to blow up. Drop something on top of the remote plunger to set off the explosion.
CAN_OPENER - Plug this can opener into an electrical outlet to make it open the can. When the sauce spills out of the can, Curie Cut will come lap it up as it's within range.
ELECTRIC_MIXER - Plug this electric mixer into an outlet to make it run.
COFFEE_POT - Make this coffee pot percolate by heating it with a candle, Aladdin's lamp, match-on-a-spring, or flint & starter. Then use the steam to push things.
ELECTRIC_FAN - Plug this electric fan into an outlet to make it blow air. Flip it to change wind direction. Use it to blow objects away or to turn the pinwheel.
VACUUM - Plug this vacuum into an electrical outlet and use it to suck up any object that's affected by gravity. When the toast is done, it pops into the air. Use it to bump other objects. You can also program it to work as a timer. The darker the toast you choose, the longer the amount of time it takes to pop up.
EGG_TIMER - Program this egg timer to a desired amount of time. Then drop something on the top knob to start the timer running. When the time is up, an arm pops out, bumping anything in its way.
ELECTRIC_MOTOR - Plug this electric motor into an outlet and flick it on the switch. Then use a belt to attach it to gears, conveyor belts, and other rotating parts.
ELECTRIC_SWITCH_AND_OUTLET - Plug any of the electrical parts (such as the toaster, can opener, or fan) into this electric outlet, then drop something on the switch to turn on the power. Or bump up on the switch if it’s upside-down.
ELECTRICAL_OUTLET - This electrical outlet has juice running to it at all times. Plug in any electrical part and it will work. (See page 16 for more info about power supplies.)
SOLAR_PANEL - This solar panel comes with its own electrical outlet. Shine a light on the panel, then plug in any electric part you want to operate.
LASER_ACTIVATED_PLUG - When a laser beam of the right color strikes this laser-activated plug, it will provide electrical power to any part plugged into the outlet. It can be programmed to be activated by laser beams of any color. But if the plug is blue, for instance, it will only accept a blue laser beam.
RED_LASER - This is a red laser gun. When the laser beam is activated, it will generate energy that can be used to power anything hooked up to that outlet. Laser beams can be bounced and directed by using angled mirrors. They may also be fired into Laser Flow. Lasers can light fuses and candles. Laser beams can also be used to pop balloons. (See page 17 for more info about lasers.)
GREEN_LASER - This green laser gun works just like the red laser. When it's plugged into an outlet (and the switch is on) it will fire a green laser beam. When the beam strikes a green Laser-Activated Plug, it will generate energy that can be used to power anything hooked up to that outlet.
BLUE_LASER - This blue laser gun works just like the red laser. When it's plugged into an outlet (and the switch is on) it will fire a blue laser beam. When the beam strikes a blue Laser-Activated Plug, it will generate energy that can be used to power anything hooked up to that outlet.
LASER_MIXER - This Laser Mixer will blend together the colors of any laser beams passing through it. For instance, a red beam and a blue beam will become purple. The purple beam could then be used to provide energy to a purple Laser-Activated Plug.
ANGLED_MIRROR - This angled mirror can be used to deflect and change the direction of laser beams. It can be positioned in four different angles.
LASER_DETECTOR - This laser detector can receive laser beams of any color. When a beam strikes the black eye, the green light turns on. If the beam is broken, the red light flashes. If the beams returns, both lights will flash.
MOUSE_MOTOR - This little gizmo is actually a Mouse Motor. Bump the cage to make the mouse run around in his wheel. Add a belt and hitch it up to things like the conveyor belt or the Jack-in-the-box to make them turn. You can flip the Mouse Motor to change direction of the belt attached to it.
MANDRILL_MOTOR - To start up this Mandrill Motor, tie a rope to the shade and give it a tug. When Pavlov Mandrill sees the banana he runs like crazy. Attach a belt to the treadmill and power anything that is driven with a belt.
CONVEYOR_BELT - Hitch this conveyor belt to a motor by adding a belt, then use it to move objects. Add a gear to make it change directions.
BELT - Use this belt to hitch any two rotating parts together. Click on the first part you wish to connect (the Mandrill Motor, for instance), then stretch the belt over to the second part (such as the pinwheel). When the line turns from red to green the belt is in position. (See page 15 for more info about belts.)
GEAR - Use a belt to connect this gear to rotating power parts which will make it turn. Place gears side by side or above/below each other to reach the distance necessary or to change the direction of rotation.
TINY_GEAR - This tiny gear rotates at twice the speed of a big gear when it's placed next to one. These gears must be placed directly beside or above/below other gears.
PINWHEEL - You can make this pinwheel spin by blowing air on it (from parts such as the fan or the bike pump). Attach a belt and use it to turn other rotating parts.
TRANS_ROTO_MATIC - This handy gadget turns translational motion (back and forth) into rotational motion (around in circles). Tie a rope to the eye hook, then tug it with another object to make the gear turn. Hitch a belt to the gear and use it to rotate windmills, conveyors, and other rotating parts.
ROTO_TRANS_CONVERTER - This nifty contraption turns rotational motion (circular) into translational motion (back and forth movement). Hitch the little wheel to a rotational motor with a belt, then tie a rope to the eye hook and hitch it to something you want to lift or pull (such as a teeter-totter, phazer trigger, or laundry basket).
BIKE_PUMP - Drop something on the top handle of this bike pump to make it blow air. It can be used to push away balloons and other objects, make the pinwheel turn, and blow out candles.
ANTI_GRAVITY_PAD - This anti-gravity pad reverses the gravity field for anything on top of it. Without gravity, most things will float up into the air. But balloons will drop.
PINBALL_BUMPER - This pinball bumper can be placed so that moving objects will bounce off in any direction.
PINBALL_FLIPPER - This pinball flipper will flick any object that drops on top of it, adding a twist. When the wheel turns, it will pop open. And when Jack pops out of his box, anything on top of his box will be shot into the air.
BOXING_GLOVE - Bump the button on the back of this boxing glove to make it punch things.
MELS_HOUSE - Here's Mel Schlemming's cozy suburban duplex. If he sees it, he'll head home. It can also be programmed to be a cabin.
MOUSE_HOLE - Newton Mouse likes to hide in this mouse hole when he's chased by Curie Cat. Or you can lure him inside by placing some cheese on the far side of the hole.
CHEESE - Newton Mouse will come after this cheese whenever he's close enough, and on the same level of flooring.
NEWTON_MOUSE - This is Newton Mouse. He'll go after any cheese he can see. He'll also run away if Curie Cat comes after him. He'll run inside a mouse hole if you place a bunch of cheese on the other side of it, or if Curie chases him toward one.
CURIE_CAT - Curie Cat will head toward Newton Mouse or Bill the Goldfish whenever she can see them. She'll turn around if she's bumped or runs into something. She also likes the goo that comes out of the can opener.
FISH_TANK - Bill G. lives in this fish tank. Curie Cat will come after him whenever she's close enough, and they're on the same level of flooring. If the tank breaks, she'll be attracted from a greater distance. Drop just about anything on the fish tank to break it.
ALLIGATOR - Here's Edison the Alligator. He'll chew down Mel Schlemmington or Newton Mouse if they get too close. He also flips things into the air with his nose.
MEL_SCHLEMMINGTON - Meet Mel Schlemmington. Mel walks or runs mindlessly forward until he bumps into something. Then he turns around and walks mindlessly in the other direction. You can program him to walk, run, or stand still until he's bumped. If he falls too far, he goes to sleep. He also has to watch out for alligators.
BOXES - This box is really five boxes in one. Program it to be glass, wooden, wicker, metal, or cardboard which are all different sizes. Drop things inside it. Use it to catch falling objects.
MESSAGE_COMPUTER - This little computer is a handy way of relaying messages (one letter at a time). A letter will appear on the monitor if something bumps the keyboard. The computer may be programmed to display any letter in the alphabet, numbers 0-9, and several symbols. Line them up side by side to spell out a whole message.